-------------------------------------
TASK 0: ONE SERVER WEB INFRASTRUCTURE
-------------------------------------


PART A: DESIGN OF THIS WEB INFRASTRUCTURE
-----------------------------------------

Design Image Link: https://imgur.com/a/hHDDIBy



PART B: SPECIFICS OF THIS INFRASTRUCTURE
----------------------------------------

Spec 1. What is a web infrastructure?
A web infrastructure is the underlying technology or architecture that consists of the physical hardware (server), 
network and software (web server) components that supports the functioning of a website.

Spec 2. What is a server?
A server is a physical computer or a virtual machine that provides funtionality to other programs or devices and
are usually accessed over a network.

Spec 3. What is the role of domain name?
Computers uses Ip address to identify a computer connected to the internet. An Ip address is usually a unique strings of numbers and other characters that are used across the internet to access websites from any device or location. However it is difficult for someone to remember it everytime they want to access that device. Therefore a domain name (footbar.com) provides an equivalent of the IP address inform of a text based name that can easily be used when accessing that computer.

Spec 4. What type of DNS record is www in www.footbar.com?
www is a CNAME record type.
It maps the subdomain www.footbar.com to the domain footbar.com

Spec 5. What is the role of the web server?
The role of the (NGINX) web server in this design is to use HTTP and other protocols to store, process and deliver requested information or web pages to end users.

Spec 6. What is the role of the application server?
An application server on works like an intermediary between the User Interface and the database providing business logic for the application.

Spec 7. What is the role of a database?
The role of the (MySQL) database is to organize data, in a way that ensures it can easily be stored, accessed and updated.

Spec 8. What is the server using to communicate with the computer of the user requesting the website?
The server uses HTTP protocol (Hyper Text Transfer Protocol) during the client-server communication.



PART C: ISSUES WITH THIS INFRASTRUCTURE
--------------------------------------- 

Issue 1. SPOF (Single Point Of Failure)
When implementing a one server web infrastructure design we make use of one database and one server. Failure of either of the two would stop the entire system from working.

Issue 2. Downtime when maintenance is needed (like deploying a new code web server needs to be restarted)
In this type of design it is imposssible to eliminate downtime. Since we have a single server and database when doing maintenance the application would be inaccessible to any user.

Issue 3. Cannot scale if too much incoming traffic
When we try to scale while the incoming traffic is high we risk the threat of overloading the server we are using. Therefore scaling would be an impractical thing to do with a single server.
